gh-95836: Add custom type converter examples to argparse tutorial (#125376)
python/cpython: Doc/howto/argparse.rst

To translate your own strings in the :mod:`argparse` output, use :mod:`gettext`.

> Custom type converters

Reviewer: We should probably indicate that custom type converters are called with a single argument, namely the argument (string) value. No context is passed around for instance.

I don't know if the docs are already explaining it but you can probably say that a more refined parsing strategy can be achieved using custom action classes where you need to subclass `__call__` and possibly `__init__` (actually, is it part of the public API? I don't remember whether it's a hack to create custom action classes).

Author: Good catch - added!

======================

> The :mod:`argparse` module allows you to specify custom type converters for
> your command-line arguments. This allows you to modify user input before it's
> stored in the :class:`argparse.Namespace`. This can be useful when you need to
> pre-process the input before it is used in your program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :mod:`argparse` module allows you to specify custom type converters for
your command-line arguments. This allows you to modify user input before it is
stored in the :class:`argparse.Namespace`. This can be useful when you need to
pre-process the input before it is used in your program.
```

Author: I'll probably stick with the tone that I have here because the tutorial is pretty casual and regularly uses "it's" etc.

> For example, let's say that you want to accept a string that represents a
> fraction, and you want to convert it to a :class:`fractions.Fraction` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, assume that you want to accept a string that represents a
fraction, and you want to convert it to a :class:`fractions.Fraction` object.
```

Here is how you can do it::

   import argparse
   import fractions

   parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
   parser.add_argument("x", type=lambda s: fractions.Fraction(s))
   args = parser.parse_args()
   print(type(args.x))

Output:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ python prog.py 1/2
   <class 'fractions.Fraction'>

You can also use custom type converters to handle more complex scenarios. For

> example, let's say you want to handle arguments with different prefixes and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, assume that you want to handle arguments with different prefixes and
```

process them accordingly::

   import argparse

   parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(prefix_chars='-+')

   parser.add_argument('-a', metavar='<value>', action='append',
                       type=lambda x: ('-', x))
   parser.add_argument('+a', metavar='<value>', action='append',
                       type=lambda x: ('+', x))

>    args = parser.parse_args('-a value1 +a value2'.split())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   args = parser.parse_args()
```

To translate your own strings in the :mod:`argparse` output, use :mod:`gettext`.

Custom type converters
======================

The :mod:`argparse` module allows you to specify custom type converters for
your command-line arguments. This allows you to modify user input before it's
stored in the :class:`argparse.Namespace`. This can be useful when you need to
pre-process the input before it is used in your program.

For example, let's say that you want to accept a string that represents a
fraction, and you want to convert it to a :class:`fractions.Fraction` object.

Here is how you can do it::

   import argparse
   import fractions

   parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()

>    parser.add_argument("x", type=lambda s: fractions.Fraction(s))

Reviewer 2: This is just `type=fractions.Fraction`. This is not different from `type=int`, `type=float`, etc, shown in the module documentation and in the examples above. In general, I do not think that the first example is useful, as it is too trivial. Examples above imply that you already know how to use `type` in such simple case.
